this is a world with a lot of global
problems and all of these problems that
challenge the world reduce to data
problems and the more that society is
better off at crunching the numbers that
are off we can solve some of our
problems
what this weekend is about is an
opportunity for data scientists to be
put in contact with charities and for
the charities to really get the benefit
from the experience data scientists can
bring to explore data and help the
charities find new ways to investigate
and determine new actions and better
ways of using their resources as a
result of the analysis I'm always amazed
that people show up and spend a weekend
instead of out partying instead of
seeing friends just sleeping working and
programming and doing statistics and
that's just incredible to me the reason
that we started data kind was because
there were all these opportunities to
work with big data for these nonprofits
foundations and governments and so I
thought man if we could just get those
people working on those problems we
could do really really cool stuff I
became involved in data kind because I
saw an opportunity to actually put my
skills to use for community for humanity
as a whole and by helping set up data
kind in the UK I mean giving people
other people the chance to do that as
well to come in and be part of that
story and be part of that experience
it's critically important to our work to
have big partners like teradata who are
just amazing and generous and working
with us to get this done because it's
really Herculean task to get data
scientists to work with social
organizations and one of the things is
really exciting is that there are this
great opportunity for data scientists
who already work in the private sector
to give back to have a chance to do
something more with the skills that they
have and entire data gets that it's
clearly part of their DNA to use data to
make the world a better place teradata
is a very successful corporation and
we're very proud of that we're very good
at data and so we feel like being able
to give back with data is almost a
societal obligation for us this weekend
is a is a chance for people to volunteer
people who are data scientists or have
an interest in data or background in
data and they come together and they use
their knowledge and their
their expertise to give back to
charities and they can take a problem
for a charity and they turn it into a
life-changing event for this charity
just all through the power of data
HelpAge is a network present in more
than 60 countries around the world and
basically we work to improve the lives
of older people we're launching a global
index about the well-being of all the
people in October it's me the first of
its kind and so actually we wanted to
get involved in this weekend both to
kind of visualize the data that we have
but also to kind of look for for kind of
kind of hidden secrets within what we've
got that may be things we haven't
realized or notice church I got involved
on this project and simply because as
part of my job role and I forecast for
school places and also for special needs
at the moment it's done by local
knowledge so people on the ground going
out and having a look see what's going
on in the local areas whereas the data
gives another perspective on it which
doesn't contain any bias commuting
voluntary action tameside work in the
borough of town side in Greater
Manchester support all the different
community and voluntary groups that do
various activities there we've done this
piece of research we've got lots of data
about the voluntary sector both in
tameside and Greater Manchester but
we've only sort of skimmed the surface
of that information we know the basic
facts and this weekend gives us a chance
to go so much more in-depth Oxfam is an
NGO that is they've been working for
more than 70 years on poverty and famine
for charities big and small charities
this is a great opportunity to
to get access to knowledge that usually
we don't use the longer term goal is
that they will make the connections with
individual volunteers those volunteers
will volunteer their time on a much
longer scale so they can really tackle
the more complex issues well meeting the
volunteers has been has been so great I
mean so inspiring that they are coming
here and joining this community and
sharing experiences sharing knowledge or
for the same final goal you have your
people from from from different areas
and different backgrounds that is great
and in general its kind of it it's great
to finally use our skill sets on
something on doing something good it's
fun to start with and and and if
something good happens along the way and
that's good too I think I'll come away
from this with new friends with similar
interests so I can continue working with
I'm interested in you know hard data
problems and if you know solving a hard
data problem could also do something
really good for the world that's a
really cool thing to do on a Saturday
afternoon step away from the data we
have nots update up donations of
government funding are down mont get
some clustering work it's really
interesting neighborhoods of high
deprivation
so the green line is the oil process
Maps you want Maps consistency quantity
and polish update we want you to be
deeper that's very good it's charity to
being stuck in the middle now you're
gonna take this forward been a fantastic
weekend and the volunteers have just
worked so incredibly harder and we've
got a fantastic range of products from
it and we've got a whole new website
that shows us all sorts of different
layers of our data and helped me so much
better understand the voluntary groups
that we work with I'm pretty gobsmacked
actually so we've got some amazing
graphs amazing kind of maps for the
interactive thing I couldn't have
expected that really it was just I we'd
hoped for something like that but it's
really amazing this weekend there's been
absolutely brilliant it's shown me where
we need to improve our data collection
and also where we can move forward from
from what we've now got my brain was so
so I mean full of ideas full of well
discovering new techniques new project
and I mean I think I've I mean already
scheduled my next year in terms of
research in terms of projects it's
amazing the results were incredible the
nonprofit's were just stunned and the
people that we met were amazing so I'd
say it was a smashing success so when
the readouts happen i'm always amazed at
what they come up with in one weekend
but it is just fantastic the value to
the charities the value to the
volunteers the value for data kind and
as teradata we could not be happier to
sponsor something like this data is
power data is the future it's a new
resource that we can use for everything
shared insights new perspectives and
it's going to be the way that everything
happens in the future
you